there's a small bakery in San Francisco
called Tartine and it's famous for its
bread and pastries one of my favorite
things to order is the croque monsieur
it's an open-faced sandwich layered with
the creamy bechamel sauce and topped
with smoked ham and Gruyere it's so
seemingly simple to make and when the
flavor combinations are perfect the
result is this cheesy French sandwich
that's perfect for breakfast or lunch
for the bechamel sauce I'm using two
tablespoons of unsalted butter two
tablespoons of all-purpose flour 1 and
1/4 cup of warmed whole milk half a
teaspoon of nutmeg and some salt and
pepper for the croque monsieur I'm gonna
use 2 slices of Dale bread about an inch
thick I'm using this round country loaf
two big slices of smoked ham and four
slices of Gruyere cheese
first I'm starting with the bechamel
sauce I melt the butter and a heavy
saucepan over medium heat for about a
minute now I'm adding in the flour and
whisking it until the mixture bubbles a
bit this will take another minute what
I'm doing here is cooking out that raw
flour taste but doing it just enough so
that it doesn't Brown then I whisk in
the milk and just let it boil to thicken
up then I'll just sprinkle in my nutmeg
because that's essential to a bechamel
sauce and then season it with some salt
and pepper and then I'll set it aside
now to make my croque once your I start
by preheating the oven to 425 degrees I
spread a quarter cup of bechamel sauce
onto each slice of bread and then I top
it with a slice of ham and two slices of
cheese then I'll bake it on a sheet
until the cheese is bubbling and brown
this will take 10 to 12 minutes if
you're ever in San Francisco be sure to
stop by Tartine and give their coq10 try
another personal favorite is their
banana cream pie
and also their bread now I'll take it
out of the oven and let it cool for
about a minute I'll pair it with some
salad and then it's fun at the teeth
and there you have it the crook wants
your if you want to croak my damn all
you have to do is add a fried egg on top
check out my other French recipes on
this playlist and I'll see you guys soon
au revoir